\"
\" pem.1: This is a manuscript of the manual page for `pem'. This file is
\" part of the `pem' project version 0.7.9
\" Copyright (C) 2007 - 2011 Prasad J Pandit
\"
\" `pem' is a free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
\" the terms of GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
\" Foundation; either version 3 of the license, or(at your option) any later
\" version.
\"
\" `pem' is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
\" WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
\" details.
\"
\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
\" with `pem'; if not, see: <http://www.gnu.org/licenses>.
\"

.TH pem 1
.SH NAME
\fBpem\fR \- GNU personal expenses manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 5
\fBpem\fR [\fBOPTIONS\fR] [<description> <amount> ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBGNU Pem\fR is a handy tool to help you keep track of your personal income
and expenses. Needless to say, using \fBpem\fR is extremely simple and easy.
A command of the following form is all it takes
.LP
    $ pem "Bus ticket" 10.75
    $ pem \-f myexpenses.txt Breakfast 20
.LP
\fBPem\fR stores these details in a CSV file, named after the current month,
and placed in the `~/.pem' directory under your $HOME directory. You may
specify some other file using the `\-f' option. Also, each amount is considered
as an expenditure unless indicated otherwise by `\-e'.

.LP
Tags/Categories:
.br
================
.PP
From version 0.7.4, \fBpem\fR introduced support for tags & categories of
records. You can tag an income and/or expense record as
.LP
    $ pem \-c bills "Cell phone bill" 830.50
    $ pem \-c 'travel fun leisure' "Trip to Goa" 4500
.LP
These are saved with the tags 'bills' & 'travel fun leisure' respectively.
Later, you can see very useful reports showing your category wise expense
traits. Now \fBpem\fR also facilitates filtering of records using tags and
description. Note that, while filtering records, \fBpem\fR first looks into
the tags and when they don't match, goes for the description field.
Ex. To see all your expenses on `travel', you can say
.LP
    $ pem \-s travel
    $ pem \-m travel
.LP
While the first will list all your `travel' expenses in a month; The later
will show the cumulative results for each month till date. Other than this,
\fBpem\fR supports these following options

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b \-\-bare
 show unformatted report
.TP
.B \-c \-\-category <name>
 categorise/tag your expenses
.TP
.B \-e \-\-earned
 indicates income
.TP
.B \-f \-\-file <name>
 specify file name
.br
.TP
.B \-s [n]
 show daily report with total after [n] days
.TP
.B \-m [n]
 show monthly report with total after [n] months
.TP
.B \-C
 show category/tag-wise report
.TP
.B \-t \-\-total
shows just the total when used it with \-s
.br
.TP
.B \-M <mm>
 select the start month (01 <= mm <= 12)
.TP
.B \-N <mm>
 select an end month (01 <= mm <= 12)
.TP
.B \-Y <yy>
 select an year (00 <= yy <= 99)
.br
.TP
.B \-h \-\-help
 show this help
.TP
.B \-v \-\-version
show version information

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
PEMTIME
\fBPem\fR recognizes the PEMTIME environment variable. PEMTIME defines the
format in which you want the `Date & Time' to be displayed. For example,
if you export PEMTIME="%F", the date "May 31 2007" will be displayed as
2007-05-31. For more information/options please see strftime(3).
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <pj.pandit@yahoo.co.in>
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Prasad J Pandit

Initial category patch: John Westlund
